---
layout: post
title: "COMBAHO: COMe BAck HOme system for enhancing autonomy of people with acquired brain injury and dependent on their integration into society"
tagline: Project
date: 2018-05-17 17:00
categories: [Projects]
tags: [COMBAHO]
image: combaho-pepper.jpg
---

<blockquote>
This project has been funded by the Ministry of Economy and Competitiveness of the Government of Spain within the State Program of R+D+i Oriented to the Challenges of Society and co-financed with European Feder funds. The grant number is TIN2016-76515-R and its complete title: RETOGAR: RETORNO AL HOGAR: SISTEMA DE MEJORA DE LA AUTONOMÍA DE PERSONAS CON DAÑO CEREBRAL ADQUIRIDO Y DEPENDIENTES EN SU INTEGRACIÓN EN LA SOCIEDAD.
</blockquote>


The care of dependent persons, whether due to illness, accident, disability or aging, is one of the priority lines of research in developed countries today. This attention, in addition to being helpful and companionable, is being considered to be even therapeutic. On the other hand, it is intended that such care is in the home of the person, with the aim of minimizing the cost of therapies. The rehabilitation of patients will be complete when their integration into society is achieved, either in the family environment or in a working and socialising environment.

To solve this challenge, the main scientific objective of this project is to promote the health and well-being of society through the design, development and evaluation of an assistant for people with acquired or dependent brain damage to help them face the challenges posed by their illness in their full social integration. This assistant has a patient's home aspect based on the design and use of an intelligent monitoring and active learning environment, and an autonomous social robot for assistance and interactive stimulation at home. On the other hand, it is contemplated to assist patients also in external environments, in case of disorientation or complex situations. This implies the integration of existing technologies, as well as providing new solutions to a variety of technological challenges that these types of systems have been matched. In addition, an experimental evaluation carried out by clinical professionals is also proposed, which will assess the effectiveness of the system in improving the quality of life of dependent persons. Both the autonomy and the positive cognitive-affective status of the patient will be evaluated.
In order to achieve the general objective proposed, it is necessary to address certain scientific-technological challenges that are broken down into the following specific objectives: i) to develop an intelligent system for monitoring the robust environment, allowing the location and tracking, in an accurate manner, of the individuals present in a scenario; ii) to develop a robust system for location and navigation, and for the recognition and manipulation of small 3D objects on board the robot. iii) To design a personalized assistant to help the patient in situations of memory failure, lack of orientation, motor difficulties, reduced visibility due to hemiplegia and other situations. This system will be trained with common indoor and outdoor behaviors and scenarios. iv) Provide the assistant with natural interaction skills using innovative natural language processing techniques combined with visual attention and in-depth learning. v) to carry out a design of the care and rehabilitation scenario, and to identify metrics, piloting and final evaluation of the system developed with real scenarios and patients; and finally vi) to disseminate and disseminate the results obtained to the scientific community and to companies and associations related to the sector.

The expected results are diverse. At the scientific-technical level, significant advances are expected in the different technologies to be developed and in terms of social impact, the aim is to improve the quality of life of patients. As for the economic impact, it is hoped that a functional system can be obtained and its possible commercialization will increase the transfer of technology to society.

## Goals

For each objective we indicate the results obtained and their degree of achievement:

1. Design an intelligent environment monitoring system, based on low-cost 3D visual sensors, that allows you to accurately locate and track the environment in your home.
2. Develop a robust system for locating and navigating, and recognizing and manipulating small 3D objects on board the robot using deep learning techniques.
3. To design a personalized assistant at home based on in-depth learning techniques specialized in temporal sequences to help the patient in situations of cognitive failure.
4. Develop an outdoor patient assistance system based on wearable vision sensors and location information.
5. Carry out the integration of the different systems and a design of care scenarios and identify metrics, piloting and final evaluation of the system developed with indoor and outdoor scenarios and real patients.
6. To coordinate the proposed objectives and disseminate the results of the project.

## Team

- José García Rodríguez  (PI)
- Miguel  Cazorla (PI)
- Diego Viejo
- Javier Montoyo
- Sergio Orts Escolano
- José María Cañas (Universidad Rey Juan Carlos)
- Francisco Martín (Universidad Rey Juan Carlos)
- Eugenio Aguirre (Universidad de Granada)
- Miguel García Silvente (Universidad de Granada)

## Publications

{% for i in (2017..2018) reversed %}
  <h3>{{ i }}</h3>

  {% bibliography --file projects/combaho.bib --query @*[year={{ i }}] %}
{% endfor %}
